tracing/README.md, before:

# Distributed Tracing Using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger
## What is OpenTelemetry?
From [opentelemetry.io](https://opentelemetry.io):

> OpenTelemetry is a collection of tools, APIs, and SDKs. Use it to instrument,
> generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) to
> help you analyze your software’s performance and behavior.

Use OpenTelemetry to generate traces visualizing behavior in your application.
It's comprised of nested spans that are rendered as a waterfall graph.  Each
span indicates start/end timings and optionally other developer specified
metadata and logging output.

Jaeger Tracing is the tool used to receive OpenTelemetry trace data.  Use its
web UI to query for traces and view the waterfall graph.

OpenTelemetry is distributed, which allows services to pass the trace ids to
disparate remote services.  The remote service may generate child spans that
will be visible on the same waterfall graph.  This requires that all services
send traces to the same Jaeger server.

## Why OpenTelemetry?
It is the latest standard for distributed tracing clients.

OpenTelemetry supersedes its now deprecated predecessor,
[OpenTracing](https://opentracing.io).

It no longer requires implementation specific client modules, such as Jaeger
client.  The provided OpenTelemetry SDK includes a client for Jaeger.

## Why Jaeger Tracing server?
Easy to setup.  Powerful and easy to use web UI.  Open source.

Traces are sent as UDP packets.  This minimizes burden on client to not
need to maintain an open socket or rely on server response time.  If tracing is
not needed, the packets sent by the client will be simply discarded by the OS.

## Getting Started
[opentelemetry.io](https://opentelemetry.io)

OpenTelemetry dev reference:
[https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel)

See unit tests for usage examples.

### Configuration
Configuration via environment variables:
[https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md).
Such as:
```
OTEL_SERVICE_NAME=myapp
OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_AGENT_HOST=<hostname|ip>
```

The service name appears in the Jaeger "Service" dropdown.  If unset, default
is `unknown_service:<executable-filename>`.

#### Probabilistic Sampling
By default, all traces are sampled.

In production, it may be ideal to limit this stream of trace data by sampling based on a percentage probability.  To enable, set environment variables:

```
OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=traceidratio
OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG=<percentage-between-0-and-100>
```

Previously in OpenTracing, this was configured in environment variables `JAEGER_SAMPLER_TYPE=probabilitistic` and `JAEGER_SAMPLER_PARAM` to the probability between 0 and 1.0.

### Initialization
The OpenTelemetry client must be initialized to read configuration and prepare
a `Tracer` object.  When application is exiting, call `CloseTracing()`.

The library name passed in the second argument appears in spans as metadata
`otel.library.name`.  This is used to identify the library or module that
generated that span.  This usually the fully qualified module name of your
repo.

```go
import "github.com/mailgun/holster/v4/tracing"

ctx, tracer, err := tracing.InitTracing(ctx, "github.com/myrepo/myservice")
tracing.SetDefaultTracer(tracer)

// ...

tracing.CloseTracing(context.Background())
```

### Setting Resources
OpenTelemetry is configured by environment variables and supplemental resource
settings.  Some of these resources also map to environment variables.

#### Service Name
As an alternative to configuring service name with environment variable
`OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`, it may be provided as a resource.  The resource setting
takes precedent over the environment variable.

```go
import (
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/resource"
	sdktrace "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
	semconv "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/semconv/v1.7.0"
)

res, err := resource.Merge(
	resource.Default(),
	resource.NewWithAttributes(
		semconv.SchemaURL,
		semconv.ServiceNameKey.String("My service"),
		semconv.ServiceVersionKey.String("v1.0.0"),
	),
)
ctx, tracer, err := tracing.InitTracing(ctx, "github.com/myrepo/myservice", sdktrace.WithResource(res))
```

If neither resource nor environment variable are provided, the default service
name is `unknown_service:<executable-filename>`.

### Manual Tracing
Basic instrumentation.  Traces function duration as a span and captures logrus logs.

```go
import (
	"context"

	"github.com/mailgun/holster/v4/tracing"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) error {
	tracer := tracing.TracerFromContext(ctx)
	ctx, span := tracer.Start(ctx, "Span name")
	defer span.End()

	// ...

	return nil
}
```

### Common OpenTelemetry Tasks
#### Span Attributes
The active `Span` object is embedded in the `Context` object.  This can be
extracted to do things like add attribute metadata to the span:

```go
import (
	"context"

	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/attribute"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) error {
	span := trace.SpanFromContext(ctx)
	span.SetAttributes(
		attribute.String("foobar", "value"),
		attribute.Int("x", 12345),
	)
}
```

#### Add Span Event
A span event is a log message added to the active span.  It can optionally
include attribute metadata.

```go
span.AddEvent("My message")
span.AddEvent("My metadata", trace.WithAttributes(
	attribute.String("foobar", "value"),
	attribute.Int("x", 12345"),
))
```

#### Log an Error
An `Error` object can be logged to the active span.  This appears as a log
event on the span.

```go
err := errors.New("My error message")
span.RecordError(err)
```

### Scope Tracing
The scope functions automate span start/end and error reporting to the active
trace.

| Function       | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `StartScope()` | Start a scope by creating a span named after the fully qualified calling function. |
| `StartNamedScope()` | Start a scope by creating a span with user-provided name. |
| `EndScope()`   | End the scope, record returned error value. |
| `Scope()`      | Wraps a code block as a scope using `StartScope()`/`EndScope()` functionality. |
| `NamedScope()` | Same as `Scope()` with a user-provided span name. |

If the scope's action function returns an error, the error message is
automatically logged to the trace and the trace is marked as error.

#### Using `StartScope()`/`EndScope()`
```go
import (
	"context"

	"github.com/mailgun/holster/tracing"
	"github.com/sirupsen/logrus"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) (err error) {
	ctx = tracing.StartScope(ctx)
	defer func() {
		tracing.EndScope(ctx, err)
	}()

	logrus.WithContext(ctx).Info("This message also logged to trace")

	// ...

	return nil
}
```

#### Using `Scope()`
```go
import (
	"context"

	"github.com/mailgun/holster/v4/tracing"
	"github.com/sirupsen/logrus"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) error {
	return tracing.Scope(ctx, func(ctx context.Context) error {
		logrus.WithContext(ctx).Info("This message also logged to trace")

		// ...

		return nil
	})
}
```

## Instrumentation
### Logrus
Logrus is configured by `InitTracing()` to mirror log messages to the active trace, if exists.

For this to work, you must use the `WithContext()` method to propagate the active
trace stored in the context.

```go
logrus.WithContext(ctx).Info("This message also logged to trace")
```

If the log is error level or higher, the span is also marked as error and sets
attributes `otel.status_code` and `otel.status_description` with the error
details.

### Other Instrumentation Options
See: [https://opentelemetry.io/registry/?language=go&component=instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/registry/?language=go&component=instrumentation)

#### gRPC Server
```go
import (
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/google.golang.org/grpc/otelgrpc"
)

grpcSrv := grpc.NewServer(
	grpc.UnaryInterceptor(otelgrpc.UnaryServerInterceptor()),
	grpc.StreamInterceptor(otelgrpc.StreamServerInterceptor()),
)
```

#### gRPC Client
```go
import (
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/google.golang.org/grpc/otelgrpc"
)

conn, err := grpc.Dial(server,
	grpc.WithUnaryInterceptor(otelgrpc.UnaryClientInterceptor()),
	grpc.WithStreamInterceptor(otelgrpc.StreamClientInterceptor()),
)
```

Commit message:

Fix race condition in tracing package.  Update documentation. (#98)

tracing/README.md, after:

# Distributed Tracing Using OpenTelemetry and Jaeger
## What is OpenTelemetry?
From [opentelemetry.io](https://opentelemetry.io):

> OpenTelemetry is a collection of tools, APIs, and SDKs. Use it to instrument,
> generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, and traces) to
> help you analyze your software’s performance and behavior.

Use OpenTelemetry to generate traces visualizing behavior in your application.
It's comprised of nested spans that are rendered as a waterfall graph.  Each
span indicates start/end timings and optionally other developer specified
metadata and logging output.

Jaeger Tracing is the tool used to receive OpenTelemetry trace data.  Use its
web UI to query for traces and view the waterfall graph.

OpenTelemetry is distributed, which allows services to pass the trace ids to
disparate remote services.  The remote service may generate child spans that
will be visible on the same waterfall graph.  This requires that all services
send traces to the same Jaeger server.

## Why OpenTelemetry?
It is the latest standard for distributed tracing clients.

OpenTelemetry supersedes its now deprecated predecessor,
[OpenTracing](https://opentracing.io).

It no longer requires implementation specific client modules, such as Jaeger
client.  The provided OpenTelemetry SDK includes a client for Jaeger.

## Why Jaeger Tracing server?
Easy to setup.  Powerful and easy to use web UI.  Open source.

Traces are sent as UDP packets.  This minimizes burden on client to not
need to maintain an open socket or rely on server response time.  If tracing is
not needed, the packets sent by the client will be simply discarded by the OS.

## Getting Started
[opentelemetry.io](https://opentelemetry.io)

OpenTelemetry dev reference:
[https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel)

See unit tests for usage examples.

### Configuration
Configuration via environment variables:
[https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/sdk-environment-variables.md).
Such as:
```
OTEL_SERVICE_NAME=myapp
OTEL_EXPORTER_JAEGER_AGENT_HOST=<hostname|ip>
```

The service name appears in the Jaeger "Service" dropdown.  If unset, default
is `unknown_service:<executable-filename>`.

#### Probabilistic Sampling
By default, all traces are sampled.

In production, it may be ideal to limit this stream of trace data by sampling based on a percentage probability.  To enable, set environment variables:

```
OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=traceidratio
OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG=<percentage-between-0-and-100>
```

Previously in OpenTracing, this was configured in environment variables `JAEGER_SAMPLER_TYPE=probabilitistic` and `JAEGER_SAMPLER_PARAM` to the probability between 0 and 1.0.

### Initialization
The OpenTelemetry client must be initialized to read configuration and prepare
a `Tracer` object.  When application is exiting, call `CloseTracing()`.

The library name passed in the second argument appears in spans as metadata
`otel.library.name`.  This is used to identify the library or module that
generated that span.  This usually the fully qualified module name of your
repo.

```go
import "github.com/mailgun/holster/v4/tracing"

ctx, tracer, err := tracing.InitTracing(ctx, "github.com/myrepo/myservice")
tracing.SetDefaultTracer(tracer)

// ...

tracing.CloseTracing(context.Background())
```

### Tracer Lifecycle
The common use case is to call `InitTracing()` to build a single default tracer
that the application uses througout its lifetime, then call `CloseTracing()` on
shutdown.

The default tracer is stored globally in the tracer package for use by tracing
functions.

The tracer object identifies itself by a library name, which can be seen in Jaeger
traces as attribute `otel.library.name`.  This value is typically the module
name of the application.

If it's necessary to create traces with a different library name, additional
tracer objects may be created by `NewTracer()` which returns a context with the
tracer object embedded in it.  This context object must be passed to tracing
functions use that tracer in particular, otherwise the default tracer will be
selected.

### Setting Resources
OpenTelemetry is configured by environment variables and supplemental resource
settings.  Some of these resources also map to environment variables.

#### Service Name
As an alternative to configuring service name with environment variable
`OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`, it may be provided as a resource.  The resource setting
takes precedent over the environment variable.

```go
import (
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/resource"
	sdktrace "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
	semconv "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/semconv/v1.7.0"
)

res, err := resource.Merge(
	resource.Default(),
	resource.NewWithAttributes(
		semconv.SchemaURL,
		semconv.ServiceNameKey.String("My service"),
		semconv.ServiceVersionKey.String("v1.0.0"),
	),
)
ctx, tracer, err := tracing.InitTracing(ctx, "github.com/myrepo/myservice", sdktrace.WithResource(res))
```

If neither resource nor environment variable are provided, the default service
name is `unknown_service:<executable-filename>`.

### Manual Tracing
Basic instrumentation.  Traces function duration as a span and captures logrus logs.

```go
import (
	"context"

	"github.com/mailgun/holster/v4/tracing"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) error {
	tracer := tracing.TracerFromContext(ctx)
	ctx, span := tracer.Start(ctx, "Span name")
	defer span.End()

	// ...

	return nil
}
```

### Common OpenTelemetry Tasks
#### Span Attributes
The active `Span` object is embedded in the `Context` object.  This can be
extracted to do things like add attribute metadata to the span:

```go
import (
	"context"

	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/attribute"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) error {
	span := trace.SpanFromContext(ctx)
	span.SetAttributes(
		attribute.String("foobar", "value"),
		attribute.Int("x", 12345),
	)
}
```

#### Add Span Event
A span event is a log message added to the active span.  It can optionally
include attribute metadata.

```go
span.AddEvent("My message")
span.AddEvent("My metadata", trace.WithAttributes(
	attribute.String("foobar", "value"),
	attribute.Int("x", 12345"),
))
```

#### Log an Error
An `Error` object can be logged to the active span.  This appears as a log
event on the span.

```go
err := errors.New("My error message")
span.RecordError(err)
```

### Scope Tracing
The scope functions automate span start/end and error reporting to the active
trace.

| Function       | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `StartScope()` | Start a scope by creating a span named after the fully qualified calling function. |
| `StartNamedScope()` | Start a scope by creating a span with user-provided name. |
| `EndScope()`   | End the scope, record returned error value. |
| `Scope()`      | Wraps a code block as a scope using `StartScope()`/`EndScope()` functionality. |
| `NamedScope()` | Same as `Scope()` with a user-provided span name. |

If the scope's action function returns an error, the error message is
automatically logged to the trace and the trace is marked as error.

#### Using `StartScope()`/`EndScope()`
```go
import (
	"context"

	"github.com/mailgun/holster/tracing"
	"github.com/sirupsen/logrus"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) (err error) {
	ctx = tracing.StartScope(ctx)
	defer func() {
		tracing.EndScope(ctx, err)
	}()

	logrus.WithContext(ctx).Info("This message also logged to trace")

	// ...

	return nil
}
```

#### Using `Scope()`
```go
import (
	"context"

	"github.com/mailgun/holster/v4/tracing"
	"github.com/sirupsen/logrus"
)

func MyFunc(ctx context.Context) error {
	return tracing.Scope(ctx, func(ctx context.Context) error {
		logrus.WithContext(ctx).Info("This message also logged to trace")

		// ...

		return nil
	})
}
```

## Instrumentation
### Logrus
Logrus is configured by `InitTracing()` to mirror log messages to the active trace, if exists.

For this to work, you must use the `WithContext()` method to propagate the active
trace stored in the context.

```go
logrus.WithContext(ctx).Info("This message also logged to trace")
```

If the log is error level or higher, the span is also marked as error and sets
attributes `otel.status_code` and `otel.status_description` with the error
details.

### Other Instrumentation Options
See: [https://opentelemetry.io/registry/?language=go&component=instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/registry/?language=go&component=instrumentation)

#### gRPC Server
```go
import (
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/google.golang.org/grpc/otelgrpc"
)

grpcSrv := grpc.NewServer(
	grpc.UnaryInterceptor(otelgrpc.UnaryServerInterceptor()),
	grpc.StreamInterceptor(otelgrpc.StreamServerInterceptor()),
)
```

#### gRPC Client
```go
import (
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/google.golang.org/grpc/otelgrpc"
)

conn, err := grpc.Dial(server,
	grpc.WithUnaryInterceptor(otelgrpc.UnaryClientInterceptor()),
	grpc.WithStreamInterceptor(otelgrpc.StreamClientInterceptor()),
)
```
