steve/README.md, before:

# Steve Jobs
A generic tmux/screen like batch job running system

The idea here is that this library would be used in a service to facilitate starting
a local job remotely via HTTP or Websockets and allow the client to disconnect then
reconnect later and see the previous output and stream any further output. (like
tmux or screen sessions in ssh)

One intended use case is to expose these jobs via service endpoints over HTTP,
gRPC, etc. to invoke batch jobs, such as health checks or benchmarks.

## Usage
Implement a `steve.Job` interface, which provides start/stop methods.

Then, launch the job with `Runner.Run()`, which returns a job id.

The runner captures and buffers job output, which can be read using
the `io.Reader` returned from `Runner.NewReader()`.

Clients should read the `io.Reader` until `err == io.EOF`, indicating the job
is complete and no more output can be read.  Reads from this reader will block
until new data in the buffer is available to read or EOF.

The reader is designed to allow multiple clients to read from the same buffer
simultaneously.  In this way, many clients can monitor the progress of a job in
real time.

Commit message:

PIP-1762: Expand on reader implementation.
NewReader reads the current job output buffer and then EOF.
NewStreamingReader reader blocks to wait for more data until job is stopped.

steve/README.md, after:

# Steve Jobs
A generic tmux/screen like batch job running system

The idea here is that this library would be used in a service to facilitate starting
a local job remotely via HTTP or Websockets and allow the client to disconnect then
reconnect later and see the previous output and stream any further output. (like
tmux or screen sessions in ssh)

One intended use case is to expose these jobs via service endpoints over HTTP,
gRPC, etc. to invoke batch jobs, such as health checks or benchmarks.

## Usage
### Implement a Job
Implement a `steve.Job` interface, which provides start/stop methods.

The start method should kick off the job in a goroutine and return quickly.

Job logic can send output to the provided writer.  Be sure to close the writer
before exiting to indicate the job is done.

The stop method should signal the goroutine to close the writer and exit.

### Run the Job
Launch the job with `Runner.Run()`, which returns a job id.

The runner captures job output, which can be read using the `io.Reader`
returned from `Runner.NewReader()`.

Clients should read the `io.Reader` until `err == io.EOF`, indicating the job
is done and no more output can be read.  Reads from this reader will block
until new data is available or EOF.

The reader is designed to allow multiple clients to read from the same buffer
simultaneously.  In this way, many clients can monitor the progress of a job in
real time.
